---
type: journal
date: 2026-03-21
---

# 2026-03-21, Saturday

I listened to Paul McCartney's Wings song Band on the Run this morning.

It felt like 3 songs in one.  I noticed that a little bit in the Beatles song "a day in the life"

Im thinking about the idea of this one hit song being a sort of super song.  A song made of lesser songs.  Or made of songs that could have been expanded to three separate simpler songs.  

If this sort of song crafting (idea crafting) is a success, i think ive noticed its shadow - short, repetitive songs that feel too simple or like empty calories.  Band on the run feels like an epic, or more like a story or a narrative as a result.

What do the lyrics suggest about this?  I dont listen to lyrics. Do they provide a single framework across what i identify as 3 separate soundscapes  (song seeds)?

I must not be the only one to see this song as 3 songs (in a fashion)?  Are there high profile examples of similar thinking?  or anything related on /r/beatles?

On the idea of different songs or soundscapes being steered by great transitioning (weighting, where/when, etc) I wonder about writing experiments with an LLM.  Could i pick three separate tones/vibes/ideas (maybe strikingly different) via notecards or callouts and ask an llm to create the 'song'? Wouldn't an LLM be somehow amazing at this?  It seems to call for maximum coherence and language and tonal fluency.  We could play with the notecards (scenes/ story nuggets to begin) in the project - gather a bunch - and then run experiments.

Regarding a work for the AI cowriting project, 
it might be fun to try this with disparate scenes - the project would be like a collection of notecards with scenes on them.  We could arrange 3 notecards and then come up with the lyrical throughline (if we think that matters - we would try with and without it) and let the agent stitch and transition between the 3 to make a single work.

I think the agent could write scenes as long as its not drafting scenes and stitching them in the same session?  does this sound like a valid concern?  so that it doesnt create the scenes and the resolution for them in the same breath?  or is that not a necessary concern  - or even how paul mccartney worked? what do you think?

if its a big problem I could be the sole instigator of scenes.  but i imagine if it isnt a problem Making scene notecards for the project is something we could both do. 

last thought it how this is presented.  are the scenes chosen to indicate some interesting or funny or clever tension - cleverly incompatible - and then the AI navigates the difficulty like a sort of trick?  or is it more attempting to make compelling little ditties like band on the run?  I suppose it may depend on the results.  We'd have to see some experiments.