---
type: journal
date: 2026-03-18
---

# 2026-03-18, Wednesday

Maybe this arose from a question peter asked yesterday about how or if this vault expands to share itself.  how or if this agent reaches out to others.  I have all sorts of questions about networking these things or casually having them 'hook up' or 'party up' or 'dock' (party up is cool because the group is Looking for a tank or a dps or something.  it suggests matchmaking creatives or thinkers.  I would love to chase this down as it was an idea my and Syd and David spoke about.  I assume it can be a part of Jim whites wiki3,  i need to remember to run this by him)

When i imagined this vault i imagined it being a template in empty form and something that can share itself selectively in collaboration (by knowing just what aspects of itself are pertinent to an idea or a project)

anyway, the thought i had when i woke up today was about sending a prepopulated version of the vault out to do an interview.  say with Bernt Wahl.  The vault is integrated with an agent and prepopulated with a project.  it could be scheduled to urge journaling in the user, which could be harvested for writing about someone.  Or maybe theres another implementation on this theme that opus would have in mind to accomplish the same thing given the current structure of the vault.

I like the idea of sending a motivated agent to help someone get a story out of themselves and also back to me. i suppose now that i write this i imagine it could be a process that my own vault sends out and routes to my inbox.  easily handled that way right?

so maybe there is another reason why i like the idea of sending something that live with and encourages them to do what i need lol. reminds and helps (taking friction out)

my raw thought on waking up jotted down was:
Sending a vault to do an interview - journal (slight mod - it knows to seek a project outcome)