---
type: journal
date: 2026-03-17
---

# 2026-03-17, Tuesday

A CHAT WITH PETER BRINSON
peters reply to the 3-14 journal


things he notices
maybe stick to terms rather than constantly switching.
he thinks i want to make sure people who are a step or two away from my world to understand the writing.

Fleshing out the context rather than racing through (my thought - this is a part of going from journal to publishable artifact.  i should note that this will be my practice out of the journal and into a publishable format.  i race through the journal to get shit out and get things captured.  to publish i need to inhabit the thinking and slow the pace down - or elaborate somehow)
(slow things down and elaborate) (or just LINK to some articles to explain these things ) (although - im not sure i like chasing ideas outside of a piece of writing while i read it)

he noticed me using the word atomize in our chats (after my claude skill for this vault) and looked it up and suggests i link that bit of thinking myself

How to address PKM (as opposed to large company profiles)
farming yourself rather than being an oil derrick
one node managing itself (personal) rather than  hierarchical  extracted compulsive garbage
(depth vs breadth)

Peter notes that netowrking or sharing these things is where something interesting or dangerous happens.  my response was agents handshaking on our behalf or matchmaking or something.

a point he liked:
similarities to the past - theres a aremedy that has the benefits of the past (gets us out of a hole)


peter mentioned a book - on bullshit
the premise - theres a difference between lies and bullshit.  lies are operating in relationship to the truth and bs isnt. 
I need a summary of this book please

peter - 
Obama said that when a decision hit his desk, it meant that it was the most difficult decision in america (by definition).  his assistants and appointees and ppl around him were in place to funnel in that manner.  that was by design. (peter bringing this up re agents!!!!) 
In response to this - 
Im thinking about popism by warhol and the moment in the book 1967 where he allows someone at the factory to answer the phone and answer interview questions as him.  and becuse its a highschool newspaper he lets them go wild with BS without interrupting them.  Andy warhol let things go horizontal - he delegated to the factory.  his art worked as a mirror to our mediated world but then it invaded his life and his process and he kept calling it POP.  He let himself be copied in his own factory by letting people model him.  even bad models became funny.  and he was down with it

Peter brinson making context out of this:
This is another way of saying that agentics are mental models. and before we had agents mental models existed in humans.  Simulating mental models


peter suggests maybe i should be talking to the most futuristic english department on the planet.  they may have a half baked vision and i can help.  he thinks i should look at the university of austin.  This makes me think of Syd and his british educational model of assigning students to professors who tailor the learning process across their education.  responsibility and personalization. what is this model called? (i know its their college)
We are thinking about the future of education here - why does the university of austin make peter think they represent the future of education? Why does he think they are free of the baggage of the present as a university model ? why should i understand them before i go out to consult with this sort of agentic vault for education or the humanities?