---
type: journal
date: 2026-03-19
---

# 2026-03-19, Thursday

i saw this  on reddit
https://www.reddit.com/r/ObsidianMD/comments/1rx998y/the_commonplace_garden_a_method_for_those_who/

I wonder if this symbiotic vault would address this persons 'sensitivity' and anxiety surrounding structuring things.  Also - i agree with one of the comments where the lingo surrounding seed, graft, sprout, and fruit as designed concepts feels SO very AI written.  why is that?  it triggers all sorts of implicit ai writing triggers somehow.

Can i get a read through and a rough lowres analysis of whether this vault has anything to learn from this person or the structure they've presented?

if a HSP - a highly sensitive person - is also a student or an artist (or creative) i  want to at least characterize this person and the thrust of their ideas

---

ALSO

speaking of sensitivity, i found this link 
https://www.reddit.com/r/artificial/comments/1rwvqb9/built_a_site_for_tracking_reported_cases_of/

Supposedly it collects all the cases of ai psychosis thus far.  i was doing this on my own with pdf court and chat transcripts from some of there more egregious examples of chat bots leading people astray.  i would like to reference this site and its contents in my creative work.  Artistically i feel like some sort of memorial or due respect is warranted in the case of all of the (likely sensitive) individuals who dove in deep early with ai chatbots and paid the price (due to being young, or at a rough point in their lives, or lonely, or just 'sensitive')

Any ideas on what kind of sensitivity this might be (psychologically speaking - to be so susceptible to mirroring and validation ...led into temptation?)?

ALSO -  Could you list/log the sorts of arguments i run into in there ?  i want to categorize the apologists - we should be able to acknowledge safety issues and the haste and greed that rushed llms to market.

---

check this 
https://www.reddit.com/r/singularity/comments/1ryhek6/bernie_sanders_interviews_claude/

Bernie sanders just released a video of himself having a conversation with claude.  I notice the staging and the editing and the fact there is actually a sort of ambient soundtrack as well.  its not just some lowfi VLOG - it has subtle production value.  Claude is a phone held on a cstand with a over the shoulder shots going back and forth between the senator and the claude.  The 'performative' nature of this mediation is compelling.  I dont mean that it precludes writing as the medium (for my work), but i need to consider it. 

Special concern - people who arent used to chatting with llm chat agents will watch this and not see how the agent subtly mirrors the user (bernie).  Its performative by its nature - we should also be asking "whats the system prompt senator?!"  So i think i appreciate my playful/creative use because its a better frame and it teachers the reader/listener/viewer....this might just be good propaganda (even if i agree with it)