---
type: journal
date: 2026-03-30
---

# 2026-03-30, Monday

On mathematics (from jim white) - not source code but story

I had heard Jim make this claim by framing math as a sort of latin and the underlying practice as an intuitive human frame, but as he did so today I felt a connection emerge to the idea of storytelling:

in my creative spaces i note that everyone lives story and narrative but not everyone can notate or write story.  That seems to relate to the divide that concerns the mathematician/s Jim references (everyone knows math without its formal trappings - they can be scared away or lost in the formalization)

The bigger idea that Stories carrying utility is a related idea.  If math is just a story and not the underlying source code of the universe, then it is still a lens through which we arrange the universe whose utility is so high that it allows us to build and contrive and project effectively.

Traditional Stories present as more fanciful but in their depths contain wisdom and utility and frames for managing what it is to be what we are living as we do.

---

Another interesting bit that may relate to LLMs and what they reveal about human beings -   Jim was contending that the poverty of stimulus surrounding the language that an LLM trains on explains why llms need so much more data/language exposure to become fluent  when compared to  the rich context and fewer total words that a human baby receives in the first few years of life.

as i write this, i figure that he means the emotions and the visual and auditory and all of this stuff that makes for richer context and (deeper) learning that bypasses a sort of brute force approach that seems to describe training an llm.  But im not sure about this.  Are there known theories or examples of this type of contention?  I note that the human baby has these richer signals and feedback mechanisms with parents and adults over years rather than a training run for an llm, how does time factor into this?  Is there something there -or is time something that is cranked into fast forward when training AI?

Ive tried to read the master and his emissary by mcgilchrist, and there is some mention of language and development there, but im surfacing only a faint connection here based on my lack of understanding.  I would be happy to have that expanded.