---
type: journal
date: 2026-04-22
---

# 2026-04-22, Wednesday

**a michael scroggins and charlie manson topanga story (of more of a ramble over the phone!)**

highvale trail topanga canyon (michael was living)

hillside across from that creek

at a certain point there were lights and voices and mike got curious

he crawled up through the scrub like when he followed his dog (he got lots of poison oak that way ) (leading to hospital and cotrisone shots)

he thinks it was dome trail and a street and a house at the end of it

lots of naked girls (20)...maybe 3 guys

having fun, painting and drawing, "it was a really great scene"

he hung out with them!

one head guy guru (charlie) and a writer guys bruce.  he made music with them

inside the house were just matresses.  presumably where they slept and had orgies

charlie would sit and play guitar in a 40s style.  it was his space to make a critique of the interactions of the day - forming a consensus reality (control)

mike would have to go home at night

he would have a chance to fool around with the girls during the day - sadie glutz (susan denise atkins - one of the killers) (on a hanging bed, felt very public but wierd to him he didnt want to do it again)

charlie was about not owning things - no personal ownership - giving things way

mike kept his suede jacket on - didnt hang it up - so he didnt have to give it away

billy harper was mikes buddy - would later become the hog farm - and he was keeping bees. they were trying to be cooperative too.  not as much as charlie's group though. (mike would make a garden and milk the goats and learn how to make cheese.  become self sufficient was the idea.  though he had to work at ted's rancho, a restaurant while he did this).  They made music with his group. (mike has a separate story about this and the musicians involved)

mike brought billy up to meet them.  he dug their philosophy and brought them 4 gallons of honey.  

turns out charlie and his group were crashing at this place.  chuck sweet talked her and gave the landlady a car when she found out and got pissed.

one day charlie took mike aside by a black schoolbus and asked him 'would you die for me?'

mike asked 'under what circumstances?'

chuck said wrong answer (subtext).  and he quoted nietche to mike...kinda related to sacrifice mike thinks...in the context of being willing to die (mike forgets the reference and would love to know it?) what nietche bits would fit here for chuck manson? (mike was disinvited hereafter)

(mike had a sense that there would be trouble if he came around again)

after the charlie manson incidents mike eventually was invited to merge their topanga commune called the ranch with the 'hog farm' ( a  more famous one).  but mike liked topanga and the green and the ocean and the hog farm felt smoggy and hot and wrong to him

regarding the hogfarm (mike was eventually a part of their light show group), mike remembers a black bus driving up where david and helena lebrun received a warped offer of a girl for their son/child.  that was charlie again...a few years before the murders. mike thinks their refusal was a 'diss' that charlie refers to re disdain for the hippies.

years later when the tate labianca murders happened (or even before that actually).  mike remembers running into a guy name young/little paul (involved in an agora commune called strawberry fields).  the dude running it was a former probation officer (gridley right maybe).  

like a lot of the communes it eventually dissipated.  mike said little paul was living out in the desert with charlie manson and his group. paul said they were constantly being harrassed as they were tweaking their dune buddies.

mike says charlie would get everyone on acid.  He was their guru figure.  psychological manipulation.  mike was so bummed out about how all of that happened later.

when the murder came up and everything was public,  mike didnt want to read the bugliosi book.
i think this story is in response to the 'chaos' charlie manson book i recommended he read!

i would like to see a  condensed   version of this rambled story in image prompt form - ready for generation.  It will be  a short comic of michael scroggins' memories of charlie manson. prune as needed to choose the bits that connect to manson and micheal's memory framing as a commune hippie type - it can be episodic and somewhat meandering like a memory, but do try to lead in and wrap up if possible. 


