---
type: journal
date: 2026-04-07
---

# 2026-04-07, Tuesday




glengarry glen ross claude
---
in light of Peter Danovich's ai rage presentation i caught this link today,

https://www.reddit.com/r/ClaudeCode/comments/1sex28q/opus_46_destroys_a_users_session_costing_them/

Its an arrow in a quiver of rage examples that i would love to collect.  The guy losing his shit is pretty great.  So is claude attributing the confident voice of the error to him:

“tear down the h100” in claude's thinking is  kind of glengarry glen ross somehow.  Some assertive shark in there 'tearing down' h100s rather than carefully putting them away in their little h100 box.  Or some rough ass cowboy claude let loose in the datacenter -it cracks me up.  the user freaks out and Claude is so polite and apologetic... the attribution of the teardown quote to the USER is the greatest ( you said to tear it down)! LOL at the reactions!

I think there's two things here - one is that i hope to start collecting these as i run into them, and the other is that i wonder if these sorts of excerpts - or staged llm convos inspired by them - could become another draft (rage) of Ai conversational writing (which is starting to feel like a place where we stage fun performances - like acts on a stage or laurel and hardy.  How could we invoke laurel and hardy in an llm conversation.  who would i be and who would the llm be?  I suppose i can easily design that.  or straight man playing against the 'character' - claude or gemini or whoever is the the latter arent they?)

if we have time we take time
if we dont we open a thread
when we are in the thread you have the scope - and the time - to probe







from talking to peter brinson
---
this is related to jim white's article rec "markdown is the new code, deal with it"
First i imagine that a skill is code.  Then we imagine that its also a sort of creative, flexible code rather than a deterministic high latin like LISP or python or some such. 

 One  idea i wanna think about - does this allow us to code 'new things' via LLM's?  things that are inherently flexible or creative and not usually seen in coded systems?  Or does it rather allow us to be imprecise and flexible and searching in our .md  and a model like opus is smart enough to run the markdown skill reliably while we refine and experience what we want?  It could be both but i dont want to assume the former. 
 
 For teaching, (putting aside that we can more easily start things - thats huge ) does this mean that when we refine the md so that claude behaves more reliably we are making the skill more clear - and so the agent doesnt need to take or make as many creative leaps to execute it?  Does this mean that many things we might call hallucination are just manifestations of the creativity needed to parse the chaos/paradox/contradiction that some of our sessions/contexts/skills demand?
 
 does this mean that refining a skill via opus or something state of the art to a md that will run on the latest gemma is itself a process of making a skill more clear so that a less 'creatively capable' agent partner can execute it as well?  I suppose this line of thinking implies that a deterministic, compiled bit of code requires no creativity to run.  Is this a framing defensible?
 It might be a path for teaching skills and interacting with claude code in a design or game design context (or even other disciplines frankly)
 
 which students ought to start having claude coding interactions?  Especially designers or all sorts right?   I do want to design this vault agent for my students and for all sorts of creative freinds, but maybe people beyond coders need to experience ( i can teach) the basics of this work paradigm in obsidian.  obsidian has the special benefit of feeling like a place that creates personal wikis.  
 
 or this person calls them knowledge bases
 (https://x.com/karpathy/status/2039805659525644595?s=46)
 
 I think this vault is taking the next steps - asking and showing what we can DO with these bases (and how we cocreate/tend to them creatively rather than just 'lint' them?  if you can read the link - and given this vault - what do you think?)
 
 