---
type: journal
date: 2026-03-25
---

# 2026-03-25, Wednesday

Peter session today --

Making sure to surface uncertainty while you speak to opus - giving it room to disagree or rather (As peter says) to sculpt the uncertainty.  

Otherwise you are controlling or navigating its agreeability.  And you get a lesser design partner.

Peter: "questions are better than answers"
Or as i read Peter, questions can be more fruitful or productive than answers.  In my read, answers collapse (or graph plot) possibility. 

How does this strike you?  about cultivating ideas and cultivating FERTILITY?  maintaining uncertainty because of its productive capacity? Who plays in uncertainty and who doesnt?

This discussion makes me think this vault allows people to play with and navigate uncertainty - maybe because its designed by me for me.  I wonder how someone who doesn't enjoy uncertainty would use this structure and how it would strike them. 

Are there theories about this in the arts of humanities?  or how this different from STEM?  or is it not different at all at the highest levels?  Didnt Poincare (spelling?) make a point about this?

---

Peter teaching terminology--

he finds it necessary to make the tortoise mind and the hare mind explicit to students.  one being timeless and wandering and brainstorming and pondering and the other being punctual and structured and executing.

Which do we think this vault is?  Can it be both in turn?

Peter also brings up that the feed has become a firehose.  "Who the hell can handle all this shit?"
and I am wondering if by building the right symbiotic partnership we can handle it.   This vault feels like one such attempt. SO many design articulations in this journal.

Btw, what was socrates' word for leisure that implied he would ponder and read and discuss?

---

Big idea (context - how this vault can integrate into a classroom with a lesson and progression and projects as guided by an instructor's wiki type vault structure.  Can this vault dock with and somehow reference an instructor's vault?  So that this vault is for the creative/student and another vault is the wiki type instructor CARTRIDGE?  Is this possible?  i want to pursue it) - spotify type summaries at the end of the class for peter or at the end of every assignment that reflect on the students and the lesson.  They summarize trends and even spotlight certain student comments or reactions or projects.  maybe we also want to allow student vaults to make agentic little experiments that get voted on each week - sally's agent wins week 1 (hopefully due to how she engaged with the material via her journal and atomized and gave the agent context).  Ideas to enrich our class.