---
type: journal
date: 2026-03-13
---

# 2026-03-13, Friday

Today i landed on the principle of serendipity by design.  

I've read of AI being an autocomplete or a patterned system  and i've 'felt' and intuited for myself that there are issues around common or typical response topology that could lead to limited possibility and possibly limited thinking (this lead to my own invocations of sampling from the tails and learning about temperature .  the idea that hallucination and creativity are deeply intertwined and navigated via intention  - or frame hygiene).

If an AI mechanism eagerly makes things tractable (always has an answer), its interesting to imagine how to steer this tendency towards answers that are designed to inspire  (the right idea at the right scope at the right moment)

In my virtual production work, I remember the idea of serendipity being one of the most appealing design ideas.  I Was there in the early VPROD days after digital had arrived and computers abducted the movie 'magic' into POST (production).  I didnt want a DP to sit over my shoulder for 20 minutes to dictate the 'perfect shot' while i fought keyframes -  we built  systems where they might hold a camera and shoot takes across the digital divide.  This returned them to their familiar creative roots where they might discover something or surprise themselves in the act of 'shooting'. 

 Naturally, the edges bled and we introduced tools so that they could alter takes or control things to a supernatural degree (bullet time, scaling handicaps, etc) - but the overall principle felt right.

I remember how some types wanted us to encode (or mocap) actual cranes or dollies rather than simulate the functioning of such things being applies to a handheld vcam.  Different creatives had Different thresholds for what was ecologically valid.  Some virtual production shoots (the sticklers for the old ways) might resolve to 20 takes whereas on a more clinical stage (and creative team) might fall into a process where each take was grist for a tempering process...from rough to specific...with tools and operator procedures that would make something like 4  predefined take passes the norm to get to something desireable.

In any case, designing for and capturing happy accidents and mistakes and 'feel' and 'imperfection' was one of my principle joys.  i would say that this is a schema i would like to recreate in a paradigm with an ai partner.