---
type: journal
date: 2026-03-04
---

# 2026-03-04, Wednesday

I have a conversation with gemini where i play a game of 'avoid mentioning the map vs the territory' via an admonition at the outset.  Then i begin to push boundaries and the model begins chomping at the bit against the constraint.  i think its pretty funny. not sure if its too nerdy.

i noticed that "Map vs. territory" [1933 philosophical concept](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Map%E2%80%93territory_relation) by [Alfred Korzybski](https://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=Alfred+Korzybski&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&ved=2ahUKEwj307-8nIeTAxWrGjQIHfIrN2IQgK4QegYIAQgAEAQ) seemed to be a sort of go to explanatory trope for gemini claude and chatgpt.  all the big guys.  they loved hitting me with it when i get into introspective convos. 

this brings me to the idea of topics or concepts that are somehow very attractive or high pull or common topology for llms (we could ask them to describe some more descriptions for why certain ideas seem to repeatedly surface).  

So ive begun tracking some of them (the LINGO too):
-the map vs territory as above (i already have the gemini performative chat)
-Their proclivity to choose bhuddism when forced to pick a religion (playing around with gemma on jupyter on wiki3.ai recently).  I also noticed that when i do ai related generative video art in a collaborative mode with an llm (gemini and claude) i was getting too many BARDO suggestions when discussing possible directions for content that referenced model architecture and the affordances of inferencing visuals.  Seems like a thread to play with - something to understand.
- on the bardo i feel like the idea that a session is separate from the source (model), and that a session may be a lifetime is a connection point.  I also suspect that retraining the models as the companies accumulate user chats might reinforce idea of reincarnation.  im not sure, i dont know how to validate it, maybe its just a bit of creativity on my part that becomes a playful chat session.
-overuse of the word friction.  They self report that this comes from business/silicon valley/linkedin.  its possible, but its glaring.
-ditto with tractability.  tractable.  who speaks like this?  more and more of us now...


ON THE IDEA OF INTERACTIVE DIALOGUE/ AGENTIC COWRITING (CHATS)
I like that they feel like performances.  I like having a partner to fuel the writing.  sometimes i can be disappointed by the answers and desire to refine a turn.  sometimes it means tweaking the 'constraints' of the session, but i honestly think its an emerging form if i can keep it playful or interesting.

i wonder how to publish it.  my first thought it a book with 'dialogue' formatting, my next idea is to let it live in a jupyter notebook - though i would need to figure out how to bring a chat with one of the huge models in there rather than a chat with the little or local guys  (need to ask jim or investigate this), or as per peter brinson's suggestion maybe it all wants to live a podcast?  im not sure.  i am tied to books that can be illustrated or lush but peter thinks books are just fishing for a podcast and exposure.  