---
type: journal
date: 2026-03-09
---

# 2026-03-09, Monday

My first thought today has to do with framing and working with LLMS who can be coherent about almost anything.  If what is right can be problematic or elusive, I want to know the contractual boundaries of a framing - to expose its artifice and bias and construction.  i think this importantly the next best thing and honestly and important lesson to be taught in the future.

In a Discord conversation with Jim and Syd i shared a little summary:
every representational mode has a profile of attention - some things forward, other things swept away. 

My tactic in prompting has been to use “highlights and hides” as a way to get an LLM to expose  metaphorical implications and grounding.  this came from an LLM discussion of https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metaphors_We_Live_By

I think this fits into some sort of repo for best practices with LLM.  Things i would like to teach and communicate with others.  identify epistemic framing.

---
Another Core idea came to me over the weekend:

from Jim White on wiki3.ai discord
Speaking of LilPAIPer, Peter D let me know he got the JSCL integration I made for them working is now live: Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence Programming is in Common Lisp  https://lilpaiper.ai/ My PR https://github.com/google-gemini/workshops/issues/156 JSCL in JupyterLite https://github.com/wiki3-ai/jscl-kernel https://wiki3-ai.github.io/jscl-kernel Big problems with LilPAIPer includes wasting a lot of compute (no memoization of LLM responses afaik) and the presentation is very poor.   **And it really makes my point that although it brings personal AI to the student the communication is to get you to reflect the tutors's ideas and it doesn't try to learn about the student at all nor meet them where they're at.  So this is a prime use case to redo with wiki3.ai**.  Saturday, March 7, 2026 at 3:10 PM

The idea that we go through the trouble of vaulting to have a better learning experience, a more personalized learning experience, is a fundamental idea of this vault and something i wish to write and teach about.  We should be able to have eccentric learning paths that also reconcile with formal pathing where necessary.  This is an implied capability of AI, and we are working here to lay the right foundation for a local, self profiling system to achieve this end (as oppossed to an externally harvested and extracted profile).  We want to achieve this but we also want to achieve it locally - this would be the best eventuality.  MAybe we also need to encrypt it and protect it eventually too, but for now i am trying to understand how to build it.  This feels like a good core concept that will have some cross pollination.

I am interested in specific simulacra here too.  ways of traversing a vault (or knowledge graph) that surface a writing style, or taste, or a sensibility for ideas.  I think this will be an area to really innovate.  i want to be on top of this - its a big opportunity - and again, a core reason for vaulting.

---

i saw an example of a web page that surfaces some aspects of a vault (i assume).
https://internetvin.com/Index
I like the idea of it more than i like his writing or implementation.  i want to steal the aesthetic and improve what is allowed to surface.  i like getting SOME sense of current activity (the notes(meta) and the projects), and of course the SKILLS share, but i hate their essays
(they are a design rather than content inspiration)

